ready for shock only about 43
of you is actually you the rest
are your friendly neighbors microscopic
creatures that help you function
properly
they mainly live in your gut but also
spread to other parts of your body
and never leave it still even though
your own cells are fewer than microbial
ones
there are on average about a hundred
trillion of them in you
if you take all the microbes dwelling
within your body
and count their genes it'll be anywhere
from two to twenty million genes and
their combinations
tomatoes have more genes than humans
well the part that's actually
us of course this shouldn't concern you
though because it's not the number of
genes that matters
but the complexity of their connections
our brain is actually pretty large
almost as large as a pillowcase it's
squeezed into a relatively small
head just because it's very wrinkly if
you could spread it out
you'd see how brainy you are in reality
when you age your brain is gradually
reducing in size
by 875 it's much smaller than at 30
and it starts shrinking by the age of
40. it happens in everyone and doesn't
affect your mental strength in any way
our brain can store only seven bits in
its short-term memory
don't even try to compare your brain
with a phone capacity
not even the one you had back in 2005.
a mere bite is 8 bits that's why you
can't even learn a phone number by heart
our short-term memory functions just
like a chalkboard
you can get some info but sooner or
later you run
out of space working memory is an
essential thing that we need to perform
almost any everyday activity including
basic conversations
navigating in the city and even trying
to copy the moves from a workout video
our strongest and most emotional
memories are usually fake
it's the way the central memory works it
gives us the confidence to believe
everything we remember is real
even though we should be confident about
fewer details
your bones become more brittle with age
as well and your spine gets compressed
that's why older people often lose some
of their height
in the same way you're a bit taller in
the morning than in the evening
because your spinal column gets some
rest while you're asleep
this effect is temporary but the one
that comes with ages
unfortunately permanent our lifespan is
programmed within ourselves
they constantly renew and divide but
they have a sort of
internal timer that stops at some point
some cells also stop reproducing sooner
than others
on average cells cease dividing when we
reach the age of 100
that means if we could find a way to
trick ourselves into turning off the
timer
we could potentially live forever among
mammals
only humans can always walk on two hind
limbs
and keep that posture for their entire
lives you might object that kangaroos
and gorillas move in the same way
but kangaroos use their tail as a third
leg
and gorillas use the help of their long
arms to keep balance
body fat isn't just a nuisance it acts
as insulation material
energy reserve and shock absorber your
body sends the most fat into your waste
region
because that's where your internal
organs are if something happens to you
this layer of fat might as well protect
your vitals from
irreparable damage your bones take part
in metabolism too
since they mostly consist of calcium
when there's not enough of this element
in your blood
bones start shedding it into the
bloodstream balancing your body
and vice versa when there's too much
calcium in your blood
it goes into the bones to be stored for
later
your skull consists of 28 different
bones
many of which are fused together to
protect your brain
the mandible or lower jaw is the only
skull bone that's only kept attached to
your head
with connective tissues and muscles and
the smallest bone in your whole body
is inside your ear it's called a stapes
and it's no larger than a grain of rice
the only bone to have a sense of humor
in your body
is inside your upper arm that's why it's
called humerus
okay i made that one up move along some
of the strongest muscles in your body
aren't in your arms or legs
they're in your head masseter is the
main muscle responsible for chewing
and it needs to be the strongest for you
to eat normally
and you know those muscles that allow
you to move your ears
those are temporalis located above your
temples
they also help you to chew your food
we've got two
really fast muscles they control the
eyelid closing
in fact they're the fastest muscles in
our body
eyes are fragile and need protection
that's why when a reflex is triggered
these muscles shut the eyes within less
than a tenth of a second
it's been believed for a long time that
a person could distinguish more than ten
thousand smells
a recent research show that people were
able to distinguish more than a trillion
smells
we also remember them better than
anything else and smells can even evoke
some distant memories
we recognize only purple blue green
yellow
and yellow red colors everything else is
a combination of these three
it's impossible to calculate how many of
these combinations the human eye sees
because every single person has slight
vision differences
but it's about one million combinations
on average
we feel about 80 percent of the taste of
any food
thanks to the nose and its ability to
recognize odors
if you hold your nose while eating you
will taste almost
nothing you might have a chocolate bar
or smoked fish in your mouth
there will be no difference for you your
sense of smell turns completely off
while you're asleep
your brain just doesn't register any
smells so
if you fall in sleep and then something
starts stinking in your house
you won't be bothered in the least rover
you
bad boy your nose doesn't just help you
breathe and catch odors
it filters the air for sensitive throats
and lungs
if we inhale dry air the nose moistens
it
cools it and heats it if it's necessary
also the nose cleans the air from dirt
we can accidentally digest small objects
such as plastic items
glass coins and many other small objects
they'll make their way through the
digestive tract within 48 hours
and there's even a man who managed to
eat a whole airplane
it took him years though but little by
little he finished his metal meal
with no trouble at all when asked if the
plane was staying there forever
the guy replied no just passing through
yeah i made that up speaking of meals
you feel sleepy after a hearty lunch or
dinner because of your basic instincts
your brain thinks and rightfully so that
when you eat
you're safe and if you're safe you can
lie down and have some rest before going
back to the world so full of dangers
every person has their unique smell that
can't be confused with anyone else's
still if you have an identical twin you
will both
have the same smell now our brain
perceives
giving presents as a more positive act
than receiving them
humans are social creatures that's why
when we do something good for
others we feel good ourselves the brain
gives us a reward for acting this way
in the form of oxytocin the happiness
hormone
our eyes are powerful tools much more so
than any camera invented to this day
but still unfortunately they can't see
the glow coming from our bodies
yep we're bioluminescent just like some
deep sea creatures
the only difference is that our glow is
so weak
that only very sensitive capturing
equipment can actually see it
oops time's up gotta glow